now Laura alono is a
palestinian-american international
lawyer who co-hosts the weekly podcast
the Palestine pod and she joins us live
from Paris a very warm welcome to you
I'm sure you have been listening into to
some of the comments that have been made
there at the UN Security Council what do
you make of the international reaction
to the icj ruling so far because there
seems to be some extremely big IR
reconcilable differences of opinion
between the US on other and others of
whether it actually calls for an
immediate to the
funds thank you for having me so Israel
and the US have been engaged now for
several days in a media frenzy trying to
spin doctor the icj order uh into some
sort of a win for Israel and also take
the attention of the order um uh off of
the order by distracting with other
stories like um attempting to justify um
The Cutting of funding for unwa but um I
think we have to be very clear that the
Court's uh failure perhaps to include
and express order um requiring Israel to
Halt its military assault does not make
this a win for Israel um the court
rejected every single one of Israel's
legal arguments and they ordered a
number of provisional measures including
requiring Israel to ensure that its
military with immediate effect ceases
killing and wounding Palestinians and
imposing on them conditions of Life
designed to bring about their
destruction in whole or in part and a as
was just mentioned many legal Scholars
and experts South Africa's foreign
minister as well has said this um that
it would essentially be impossible for
Israel if it were actually to try to
respect the order to do so without
halting its military operations in uh
and on Gaza there's simply no way that
you can provide Aid to all of gaza's 2.3
million people without ceasing um the
the bombardment they simp simply no way
that you can stop killing and wounding
Palestinians without ceasing the
bombardment now of course whether Israel
actually wants to um follow the order is
a different question and what we've seen
in the last few days is that it simply
has no interest in abiding by the the
order yeah exactly what Riyad Manor the
Palestinian ambassador to the UN
suggested by saying that Israel defies
international law is in in his words
open War Israel is an open war with the
United Nations what does that say about
the effectiveness of any kind of ruling
by the icj or indeed possibly by the
international criminal court going
forward well I think we have to remind
the viewers that you know the order
itself is incapable of making a
difference merely by its being rendered
um so um you know we have to keep in
mind that the onus will always remain on
people to organize to mobilize to build
power um in order to oblige Israel to
comply with its International
obligations and to essentially use what
we have now in the form of the icj order
um as a tool in order to push forward
the global movement calling for an
immediate permanent ceasefire and
eventually um an end to Israel's Siege
of Gaza an end to the occupation of Gaza
and the West Bank um and a dismantlement
of the settler Colonial apartheid regime
Lara alono we have to leave it there I'm
afraid but many thanks for sharing your
thoughts and
Analysis